Edited "NASA Picture of the Day (#2098)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/getting-started/part2-content-scripts.md

title: Create an extension tutorial, part 2
description: Dynamically inserting a NASA picture below the page body tag by using content scripts.
author: MSEdgeTeam

> ms.author: v-jandrew    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.author: msedgedevrel
```
per global Find in the repo to confirm the convention.  also avoid trailing spaces

ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 08/05/2022
---
# Create an extension tutorial, part 2

To see the completed extension package source for this part of the tutorial, go to [MicrosoftEdge-Extensions repo > extension-getting-started-part2](https://github.com/microsoft/MicrosoftEdge-Extensions/tree/main/Extension%20samples/extension-getting-started-part2/extension-getting-started-part2).  

The source code has been updated from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3.

This tutorial covers the following extension technologies:

> *   Injecting JavaScript libraries into an extension.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Injecting JavaScript libraries into an extension.
```

Reviewer: Two trailing spaces = linebreak in Markdown.  We converted repo to get rid of trailing spaces on every line.  A single trailing space is innocuous, but trying to keep repo streamlined per new convention.

*   Exposing extension assets to browser tabs.
*   Including content pages in existing browser tabs.
*   Having content pages listen for messages from pop-ups and respond.

> You'll learn to update your pop-up menu to replace your static stars image with a title and a standard HTML button.  That button, when selected, passes that star’s image to the content page.  This image is now embedded in the extension and inserted into the active browser tab. Here are the steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll learn to update your pop-up menu to replace your static stars image with a title and a standard HTML button.  That button, when selected, passes that star's image to the content page.  This image is now embedded in the extension and inserted into the active browser tab. Here are the steps.
```
Please make sure the Docs Authoring Pack (set of extensions) is installed in VS Code.  Probably auto converts any curly quotes into straight quotes.

> 

Reviewer: global in article: supposed to have a word after pop-up; see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/p/pop-up

> ## Remove the image from the pop-up and replace it with a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Remove the image from the pop-up and replace it with a button.
```

> ## Remove the image from the pop-up and replace it with a button.

Reviewer: Style guide (not nece. binding) says have a word after "pop-up"
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/p/pop-up

Reviewer: @JasonAndrewWriter - per MWSG link above, consider possibly adding a word after "pop-up" in the h2.  Is it specifically a menu here, or button, or it varies?  Check page for "pop-up" without a word after it that's modified.

Author: fixed

ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 08/05/2022
---
# Create an extension tutorial, part 2

To see the completed extension package source for this part of the tutorial, go to [MicrosoftEdge-Extensions repo > extension-getting-started-part2](https://github.com/microsoft/MicrosoftEdge-Extensions/tree/main/Extension%20samples/extension-getting-started-part2/extension-getting-started-part2).  

The source code has been updated from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3.

This tutorial covers the following extension technologies:
*   Injecting JavaScript libraries into an extension.
*   Exposing extension assets to browser tabs.
*   Including content pages in existing browser tabs.
*   Having content pages listen for messages from pop-ups and respond.

> You'll learn to update your pop-up menu to replace your static stars image with a title and a standard HTML button.  That button, when selected, passes that star's image to the content page.  This image is now embedded in the extension and inserted into the active browser tab. Here are the steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll learn to update your pop-up menu to replace your static stars image with a title and a standard HTML button.  That button, when selected, passes that image of stars to the content page.  This image is now embedded in the extension and inserted into the active browser tab. Here are the steps.
```
The image `stars.jpeg` is at bottom of rendered section:
https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions-chromium/getting-started/part2-content-scripts?branch=pr-en-us-2098&tabs=v2#step-6-add-the-content-script-message-listener

ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 08/05/2022
---
# Create an extension tutorial, part 2

To see the completed extension package source for this part of the tutorial, go to [MicrosoftEdge-Extensions repo > extension-getting-started-part2](https://github.com/microsoft/MicrosoftEdge-Extensions/tree/main/Extension%20samples/extension-getting-started-part2/extension-getting-started-part2).  

The source code has been updated from Manifest V2 to Manifest V3.

This tutorial covers the following extension technologies:
*   Injecting JavaScript libraries into an extension.
*   Exposing extension assets to browser tabs.
*   Including content pages in existing browser tabs.
*   Having content pages listen for messages from pop-ups and respond.

You'll learn to update your pop-up menu to replace your static stars image with a title and a standard HTML button.  That button, when selected, passes that star's image to the content page.  This image is now embedded in the extension and inserted into the active browser tab. Here are the steps.

> <!-- ====================================================================== -->

Reviewer: Each h2 heading that's for a major step: Add "Step n: " prefix.  Update numbering manually for such h2 headings, from 1 to n.

Author: I added those in manually.

<!--![popup.html display after selecting the Extension icon] -->

> ## Update strategy to display image at the top of the browser tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Update strategy to display image at the top of the browser tab
```

After adding the button, the next task is to make it bring up the `images/stars.jpeg` image file at the top of the active tab page.

Each tab page (and extension) runs in its own thread. Create a content script that is injected into the tab page.  Then, send a message from your pop-up to that content script running on the tab page. The content script will receive the message, which describes which image should be displayed.

> ## Create the pop-up JavaScript to send a message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Create the pop-up JavaScript to send a message
```

<!--![popup.html display after selecting the Extension icon] -->

## Step 2: Update strategy to display image at the top of the browser tab

After adding the button, the next task is to make it bring up the `images/stars.jpeg` image file at the top of the active tab page.

Each tab page (and extension) runs in its own thread. Create a content script that is injected into the tab page.  Then, send a message from your pop-up to that content script running on the tab page. The content script will receive the message, which describes which image should be displayed.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 3: Create the pop-up JavaScript to send a message

> Create the `popup/popup.js` and add code to send a message to your not-yet-created content script that you must momentarily create and inject into your browser tab.  To do that, the following code adds an `onclick` event to your pop-up **Display** button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `popup/popup.js` file and add code to send a message to your not-yet-created content script that you must momentarily create and inject into your browser tab.  To do that, the following code adds an `onclick` event to your pop-up **Display** button:
```

<!--![popup.html display after selecting the Extension icon] -->

## Update strategy to display image at the top of the browser tab

After adding the button, the next task is to make it bring up the `images/stars.jpeg` image file at the top of the active tab page.

Each tab page (and extension) runs in its own thread. Create a content script that is injected into the tab page.  Then, send a message from your pop-up to that content script running on the tab page. The content script will receive the message, which describes which image should be displayed.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 2: Create the pop-up JavaScript to send a message

> Create the `popup/popup.js` and add code to send a message to your not-yet-created content script that you must momentarily create and inject into your browser tab.  To do that, the following code adds an `onclick` event to your pop-up display button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the `popup/popup.js` and add code to send a message to your not-yet-created content script that you must momentarily create and inject into your browser tab.  To do that, the following code adds an `onclick` event to your pop-up **Display** button:
```

In the `onclick` event, find the current browser tab.  Then, use the `chrome.tabs.sendmessage` Extension API to send a message to that tab.

> In that message, you must include the URL to the image you want to display.  Ensure that you send a unique ID to assign to the inserted image.  Let the content insertion JavaScript generate that image ID in `popup.js`, and then pass that ID to the not-yet-created content script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that message, you must include the URL to the image you want to display.  Also, make sure that you send a unique ID to assign to the inserted image.  Let the content insertion JavaScript generate that image ID in `popup.js`, and then pass that ID to the not-yet-created content script.
```

In the `onclick` event, find the current browser tab.  Then, use the `chrome.tabs.sendmessage` Extension API to send a message to that tab.

> In that message, you must include the URL to the image you want to display.  Also, make sure that you send a unique ID to assign to the inserted image.  Let the content insertion JavaScript generate that image ID in `popup.js`, and then pass that ID to the not-yet-created content script.

Reviewer: "Let the..." is that's the approach we're NOT doing.  The original instructions direct the user to NOT let the JS generate the image ID even though they could.  The original could be clearer - trying to make too many points in one sentence.  Its structure is:

Approach 1: We're not doing this approach.  Approach 1 would be to let the content insertion JS assign the ID (we're not doing that approach).
Approach 2: We're doing this approach.  Generate the ID in popup.js, then pass the ID to the content script.

I'd definitely use two sentences and/or two list items.  I'd very likely use two list items, to line up & contrast clearly the two different approaches.  I've had success/clarity lately with naming in terms of "Approach 1" and "Approach 2".
```suggestion
In that message, you must include the URL to the image you want to display.  Also, make sure that you send a unique ID to assign to the inserted image.

To send a unique ID to assign to the image, a couple different approaches are possible:
*  Approach 1: Let the content insertion JavaScript generate that image ID.  We won't use that approach here, for reasons that become apparent later.
*  Approach 2: Generate that unique ID here in `popup.js`, and then pass that ID to the not-yet-created content script.  We'll use this approach.
```

---

> ## Make your `stars.jpeg` available from any browser tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Make your `stars.jpeg` available from any browser tab
```

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Step 4: Make your `stars.jpeg` available from any browser tab

> This is why the `images/stars.jpeg` must use the `chrome.runtime.getURL` (or `chrome.extension.getURL` while using Manifest V2) API instead of just passing in the relative URL without the extra prefix like in the previous section.  The extra prefix, returned by `getUrl` with the image attached, should look something like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you pass the `images/stars.jpeg`, you must use the `chrome.runtime.getURL` API (or `chrome.extension.getURL` if using Manifest V2) instead of just passing in the relative URL without the extra prefix like in the previous section.  That extra prefix is returned by `getUrl` with the image attached, and looks something like the following:
```

You've now written the code in your `popup.js` file to send a message to the content page that is embedded on the current active tab page, but you haven't created and injected that content page.  Do that now.

> ## Update your `manifest.json` for content and web access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Update your `manifest.json` for content and web access
```

---

The `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that all files in `content_scripts` are injected into all browser tab pages when each tab is loaded.  The allowed files types that can be injected are JavaScript and CSS.  You also added `lib\jquery.min.js`.  You're able to include that from the download mentioned at the top of the section.

> ## Add jQuery and understanding the associated thread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Add jQuery and understanding the associated thread
```

Reviewer: Consider two separate headings, or some way to avoid the compound asymmetrical heading: maybe:
h2 Add jQuery to XYZ ... the associated thread
h4 Understanding the associated thread

In the content scripts that you're injecting, plan on using jQuery (`$`).  You added a minified version of jQuery and put it in your Extension package as `lib\jquery.min.js`.  These content scripts run in individual sandboxes, which means that the jQuery injected into the `popup.js` page isn't shared with the content.

Keep in mind that even if the browser tab has JavaScript running on it on the loaded web page, any content injected doesn't have access to that.  That injected JavaScript just has access to the actual DOM loaded in that browser tab.

> ## Add the content script message listener

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Add the content script message listener
```

---

> The `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that all files in `content_scripts` are injected into all browser tab pages when each tab is loaded.  The allowed files types that can be injected are JavaScript and CSS.  You also added `lib\jquery.min.js`.  You're able to include that from the download mentioned at the top of the section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that all files in `content_scripts` are injected into all browser tab pages when each tab is loaded.  The allowed files types that can be injected are JavaScript and CSS.  You also added `lib\jquery.min.js`.  You can include that from the download mentioned at the top of the section.
```

---

The `matches` attribute is set to `<all_urls>`, which means that all files in `content_scripts` are injected into all browser tab pages when each tab is loaded.  The allowed files types that can be injected are JavaScript and CSS.  You also added `lib\jquery.min.js`.  You're able to include that from the download mentioned at the top of the section.

## Add jQuery and understanding the associated thread

In the content scripts that you're injecting, plan on using jQuery (`$`).  You added a minified version of jQuery and put it in your Extension package as `lib\jquery.min.js`.  These content scripts run in individual sandboxes, which means that the jQuery injected into the `popup.js` page isn't shared with the content.

> Keep in mind that even if the browser tab has JavaScript running on it on the loaded web page, any content injected doesn't have access to that.  That injected JavaScript just has access to the actual DOM loaded in that browser tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that even if the browser tab has JavaScript running on it on the loaded web page, any content that's injected doesn't have access to that.  That injected JavaScript just has access to the actual DOM loaded in that browser tab.
```
